\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename xorriso-tcltk.info
@settitle GNU xorriso-tcltk 1.4.9
@c %**end of header
@c
@c man-ignore-lines begin
@dircategory Archiving
@direntry
* Xorriso-tcltk: (xorriso-tcltk).   Educational GUI frontend for xorriso
@end direntry
@c man-ignore-lines end
@c
@c Notes about embedded man page:
@c This texinfo code contains the necessary info to produce a man page
@c which resembles much the version of xorriso.1 from which this code
@c was originally derived in march 2010.
@c One can produce the man page by applying the following rules:
@c   The first line gets discarded.
@c   Line start "@c man " will become "", the remainder is put out unaltered.
@c   Lines "@*" will be converted to ".br"
@c   "@c man-ignore-lines N"  will discard N following lines.
@c   "@c man-ignore-lines begin" discards all following lines
@c   up to "@c man-ignore-lines end".
@c   Line blocks of "@menu" "@end menu" will be discarded.
@c   "@item word words" becomes "\fBword\fR words".
@c   @b{...}, @command{...}, @dfn{...}, @emph{...}, @strong{...}
@c     get mapped to \fB...\fR .
@c   @abbr{...}, @code{...}, @file{...}, @i{...}, @option{...}, @r{...},
@c     @ref{...}, @samp{...},@var{...}, get mapped to ... .
@c   @ref{...}, @xref{...} get mapped to empty text.
@c   @email{...} gets mapped to <...> .
@c   Mapped {...} content is subject to the rules except {...} mapping.
@c   @minus{} will become "-".
@c   @@ , @{, @} will get stripped of their first @.
@c   Other lines which begin by "@" will be discarded.
@c   In lines not stemming from "@c man", "\" becomes "\\"
@c   "-" which are not preceded by an uneven number of "\" will get
@c     prepended one "\".
@c
@c
@c man .\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
@c man .\"
@c man .\" IMPORTANT NOTE:
@c man .\"
@c man .\"      The original of this file is kept in xorriso/xorriso-tcltk.texi
@c man .\"      This here was generated by program xorriso/make_xorriso_1
@c man .\"
@c man .\"
@c man .\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
@c man .\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
@c man .\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
@c man .TH XORRISO-TCLTK 1 "Version 1.4.9, Sep 29, 2017"
@c man .\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
@c man .\"
@c man .\" Some roff macros, for reference:
@c man .\" .nh        disable hyphenation
@c man .\" .hy        enable hyphenation
@c man .\" .ad l      left justify
@c man .\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
@c man .\" .nf        disable filling
@c man .\" .fi        enable filling
@c man .\" .br        insert line break
@c man .\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
@c man .\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
@c man .nh
@c man-ignore-lines begin
@copying
xorriso-tcltk -  Educational GUI frontend for xorriso

Copyright @copyright{} 2011 - 2017 Thomas Schmitt

@quotation
Permission is granted to distrubute this text freely.
@end quotation
@end copying
@c man-ignore-lines end
@titlepage
@title Manual of GNU xorriso frontend xorriso-tcltk 1.4.9
@author Thomas Schmitt
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage
@contents
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top xorriso-tcltk 1.4.9
@c man-ignore-lines 1

@c man .SH NAME
xorriso-tcltk -  Educational GUI frontend for xorriso
@end ifnottex
@menu
* Overview::            Overview
* Options::             Options
* Examples::            Examples
* Files::               Files
* Seealso::             See also
* Bugreport::           Reporting bugs
* Legal::               Author, Copyright, Credits
* CommandIdx::          Alphabetic Command List
* ConceptIdx::          Alphabetic List of Concepts and Objects
@end menu
@node Overview, Options, Top, Top
@chapter Overview
@c man .SH SYNOPSIS
@c man .B xorriso-tcltk
@c man [ options ]
@c man .br
@c man .SH DESCRIPTION
@c man .PP
@command{xorriso-tcltk}
demonstrates xorriso use cases by a collection of GUI components.
@*
@sp 1
@c man .PP
It creates a window with buttons, editable text fields, and list boxes.
For exploration simply start
@command{xorriso-tcltk}
without any options.
@*
@sp 1
@c man .PP
Click on the "Help" button at the upper right edge to get an overview help
text in a separate window. It explains the three main parts of the GUI window
and it gives examples for a few main use cases of xorriso.
@*
@sp 1
@c man .PP
Click by the rightmost mouse button on any button, list box, or text field,
to get a specific help text in another window.
@*
@sp 1
@c man .PP
@command{xorriso}
is a program which copies file objects from POSIX compliant
filesystems into Rock Ridge enhanced ISO 9660 filesystems and performs
session-wise manipulation of such filesystems. It can load the management
information of existing ISO images and it writes the session results to
optical media or to filesystem objects.
@*
Vice versa @command{xorriso} is able to copy file objects out of ISO 9660
filesystems.
@c man .SS
@node Options, Examples, Overview, Top
@chapter Options
@cindex xorriso, options
@c man .br
@c man .SH OPTIONS
@c man .br
@c man .PP
Normally, no program options are needed when 
@command{xorriso-tcltk}
gets started. Some of the options are for demonstration of program development.
This man page lists only those options which may be helpful for end users.
@c man .PP
@c man .TP
@table @asis
@item @minus{}@minus{}help
@kindex @minus{}@minus{}help   print help text to stderr
@cindex Help text, print to stderr, @minus{}@minus{}help
Print a help text with the complete list of start options and exit.
@c man .TP
@item @minus{}@minus{}no_extract
@kindex @minus{}@minus{}no_extract   ban extraction of files to disk
@cindex Extraction of files, ban, @minus{}@minus{}no_extract
Do not allow extraction of files from ISO filesystem to
hard disk. This is not revokable during the program run.
@c man .TP
@item @minus{}@minus{}geometry @{+|-@}X@{+|-@}Y
@kindex @minus{}@minus{}geometry  set position of main window
@cindex Main window, position, @minus{}@minus{}geometry
Set the position of the main window on the screen. +0X is the left edge,
-0X is the right edge, +0Y is the upper edge, -0Y is the lower edge.
@c man .TP
@item @minus{}@minus{}click_to_focus
@kindex @minus{}@minus{}click_to_focus   click needed before text input
@cindex Keyboard focus, change by click, @minus{}@minus{}click_to_focus
Chooses that input fields and list boxes get the keyboard
focus only when being clicked by the mouse. This is the default.
@c man .TP
@item @minus{}@minus{}auto_focus
@kindex @minus{}@minus{}auto_focus   text input where mouse is
@cindex Keyboard focus, where mouse is, @minus{}@minus{}auto_focus
Chooses that the keyboard focus is where the mouse pointer is.
@end table
@node Examples, Files, Options, Top
@chapter Examples
@c man .SH EXAMPLES
Just run
@command{xorriso-tcltk}
in a shell terminal without any further arguments
@c man .SH FILES
@node Files, Seealso, Examples, Top 
@chapter Files
@c man .SS 
@c man .B Startup files:
@section Startup Files
@*
When starting xorriso, its normal startup files get read and their text lines
get executed as commands. See section FILES in the man page of xorriso or
chapter Files in the info document of xorriso.
@c man .SH SEE ALSO
@c man .TP
@c man .BR xorriso(1)
@c man-ignore-lines begin
@node Seealso, Bugreport, Files, Top
@chapter See also
info xorriso
@c man-ignore-lines end
@c man .SH BUGS
@node Bugreport, Legal, Seealso, Top
@chapter Reporting bugs
@cindex Bugs, reporting
@cindex Problems, reporting
To report bugs, request help, or suggest enhancements for @command{xorriso}
or @command{xorriso-tcltk}, 
please send electronic mail to the public list @email{bug-xorriso@@gnu.org}.
If more privacy is desired, mail to @email{scdbackup@@gmx.net}.
@*
@sp 1
Please describe what you expect the program to do,
the program arguments, GUI components, or dialog commands by which you
tried to achieve it,
the messages of @command{xorriso}, and the undesirable outcome of your
program run.
@*
@sp 1
Expect to get asked more questions before solutions can be proposed.
@c man .SH AUTHOR
@node Legal, CommandIdx, Bugreport, Top
@chapter Author, Copyright, Credits
@section Author
Thomas Schmitt <scdbackup@@gmx.net>
@*
for libburnia-project.org
@c man .SH COPYRIGHT
@section Copyright
Copyright (c) 2011 - 2017 Thomas Schmitt
@*
Permission is granted to distribute this text freely. It shall only be
modified in sync with the technical properties of xorriso-tcltk.
If you make use of the license to derive modified versions of xorriso-tcltk
then you are entitled to modify this text under that same license.
@c man .SH CREDITS
@section Credits
@command{xorriso} is in part based on work by Vreixo Formoso who provides
libisofs together with Mario Danic who also leads the libburnia team.
Thanks to Andy Polyakov who invented emulated growing,
to Derek Foreman and Ben Jansens who once founded libburn.
@*
Compliments towards Joerg Schilling whose cdrtools served me for ten years.
@c man-ignore-lines begin

@node CommandIdx, ConceptIdx, Legal, Top
@chapter Alphabetic Options List
@printindex ky

@node ConceptIdx,, CommandIdx, Top
@chapter Alphabetic List of Concepts and Objects
@printindex cp

@c man-ignore-lines end
@bye
